docs/BUILD.md, before:

# Building

## "I want it now!"

This is really easy. See the `config-template.cmake`? Copy it into a file called `config.cmake`, and change any values you think need changed (at the very least NMS_EXE_DIR must be changed). Then configure and build, if it's in the shell:

```sh
mkdir build && cd build
cmake ..
cmake --build .
```

All binaries will end up in `./bin`

### "It didn't work"

Read the rest of this file.

### "It still didn't work"

Contact me (@tractorbeam on discord) or, if the issue is something on our end (and you know what you're doing), open an issue on Github.

## Configuring

```sh
mkdir build && cd build
cmake ..
```

If you want to contribute, all we require is that you use a dedicated build folder. It's just proper project etiquette.

### OS

* **Windows** - Assuming all the dependencies are there, it should just work.
* **macOS/Other** - We currently do not have a way of making this compile natively on mac. Unfortunately, a lot of the processes that make this work on Windows and whatnot is impossible given macOS's entirely different software *and* hardware architectures. You can, however, run it under a translation layer such as wine or proton, however this is **untested** and there are no garuntees.

### Dependencies

All this requires is Cmake, a build system (like Ninja or Gnu Make), and your choice of C/C++ compiler flavour. Everything else is downloaded automatically at configure time.

## Compiling

```bash
cmake --build .
```

This is why we use cmake. After all of this is done and generated, this is the entire build command, every single time. It will even reconfigure on it's own if you add a few new source files or something like that. Marvelous.

## Q&A

### "Why does it need to know where No Man's Sky is?"

It's not your average run-of-the-mill build process. Due to the immense number of classes (>2000) it's difficult to track them without bogging the repo down (along with the various potential legal repurcussions of shipping stripped code directly from the exe). Luckily, the extraction and building of these headers can be automagically pulled from No Man's Sky using Heridium by attaching it to the running executable and extracting them all when it loads. Even better, this all happens at compile time without any extra input from you, aside from the path to the NMS.exe in the config.cmake.

<sup><sub>-tractorbeam wrote this-</sub></sup>

Commit message:

updated docs to clarify that an error doesn't matter

docs/BUILD.md, after:

# Building

## "I want it now!"

This is really easy. See the `config-template.cmake`? Copy it into a file called `config.cmake`, and change any values you think need changed (at the very least NMS_EXE_DIR must be changed). Then configure and build, if it's in the shell:

```sh
mkdir build && cd build
cmake ..
cmake --build .
```

All binaries will end up in `./bin`

### "It didn't work"

Read the rest of this file.

### "It still didn't work"

Contact me (@tractorbeam on discord) or, if the issue is something on our end (and you know what you're doing), open an issue on Github.

## Configuring

```sh
mkdir build && cd build
cmake ..
```

If you want to contribute, all we require is that you use a dedicated build folder. It's just proper project etiquette.

### OS

* **Windows** - Assuming all the dependencies are there, it should just work.
* **macOS/Other** - We currently do not have a way of making this compile natively on mac. Unfortunately, a lot of the processes that make this work on Windows and whatnot is impossible given macOS's entirely different software *and* hardware architectures. You can, however, run it under a translation layer such as wine or proton, however this is **untested** and there are no garuntees.

### Dependencies

All this requires is Cmake, a build system (like Ninja or Gnu Make), and your choice of C/C++ compiler flavour. Everything else is downloaded automatically at configure time.

## Compiling

```bash
cmake --build .
```

This is why we use cmake. After all of this is done and generated, this is the entire build command, every single time. It will even reconfigure on it's own if you add a few new source files or something like that. Marvelous.

## Q&A

### "Why does it need to know where No Man's Sky is?"

It's not your average run-of-the-mill build process. Due to the immense number of classes (>2000) it's difficult to track them without bogging the repo down (along with the various potential legal repurcussions of shipping stripped code directly from the exe). Luckily, the extraction and building of these headers can be automagically pulled from No Man's Sky using Heridium by attaching it to the running executable and extracting them all when it loads. Even better, this all happens at compile time without any extra input from you, aside from the path to the NMS.exe in the config.cmake.

### "I keep getting a dubious error about ' `patch failed` ' when reconfiguring. What?"

This is completely normal. We apply a patch to MinHook, a dependency, because MinHook hasn't been updated in a while and CMake complains about it being from an older version that may go out of support. Unfortunately, the patching command runs every single time it's reconfigured, and if it's already been patched it errors out, but it's perfectly ignorable, hence why the configuring continues.

<sup><sub>-tractorbeam wrote this-</sub></sup>
